MTM-62622 change log: inventory search with wildcards becomes case-sensitive (#3490)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-2025-207-0-case-insensitive-inventory-search-for-wildcard-patterns.md

---
date:
title: Inventory search with wildcards becomes case-insensitive
change_type:
  - value: change-3BQrQ6adS
    label: API change
product_area: Platform services
component:
  - value: component-JlFdtOPva
    label: REST API
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-62622
version: 2025.207.0
---

> To provide better user experience for searching inventory by particular property the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve the user experience when searching the inventory by a particular property, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform changes
```

> the behavior of search by filter with wildcards. From now on queries using [query language](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Query-language) with wildcards will behave case-insensitive. Previously such queries were processed with case-sensitive strategy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its behavior for searches by filter with wildcards. Queries using the [query language](https://cumulocity.com/api/core/#tag/Query-language) with wildcards now behave case-insensitive. Previously, such queries were processed with a case-sensitive strategy. 
```

Example request: <br/>
`GET /inventory/managedObjects?query=name+eq+'my-device*` <br/>

> can return now devices with name equal `'my-device01'` or `'My-Device02'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can now return devices with names equal `'my-device01'` or `'My-Device02'`.
```

> Queries without wildcard character remain unchanged and use exact match for optimal performance. This means that example request: <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queries without a wildcard character remain unchanged and use the exact match for optimal performance. This means that the example request: <br/>
```

`GET /inventory/managedObjects?query=name+eq+'My-device01'` <br/>

> will not return device with name equal `'my-device01'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will not return a device with a name equal `'my-device01'`.
```
